Communication world today mostly works on embedded C.
Its a 6 day course.
1837 - the telegraph - inof took days or weeks to transmit
1876 - phone invented
1915 - first trans-continental and translantic phone connections
1900's - information transmitted in minutes or hours
2000's - huge quantities of info transmitted
-------------
Components of a Local Area Network:
Client computers
Servers - file server, web server, print server
Hub -
Router -
Printer -
Circuits - 

Local Area Network (LAN) - room, building. a group of PCs that share a circuit
Metropolitan Area Networks (MAN) - < few 10 kms) - connect LANs and BNs at different locations. Leased lines or other services used to transmit data.
Wide Are Networks(WAN) - > few 10 kms - Same as MAN except wider scale.

Major standards bodies:
ISO
ANSI
IEEE
IETF

Unicast - term used to describe comms where a piece of information is sent from one point to another point. one sender one receiver.
Boradcast - term used to describe comm where a piece of info is sent from one point to all other points. one sender, but info is sent to all connected receivers.
Multicast - info is sent from one point to a set of other points. may be one sender and info is distributed to a set of receivers. e.g. conference call.

Bandwidth:
The capacity of the medium to transmit data.
Analog bandwidth - measurement is in Hertz(Hz) or cycles/sec.
Digital bandwidth - measurement is in bits per second (bps).

The post model:
---------------
Build the fedex model

ISO-OSI seven layers model
--------------------------
introduced in 1978 and refined in 1984:
7. application - the application itself. 
6. presentation - the format of the data. e.g. want to encrypt the data during transmission.
5. session - Are we "allowed" to go up to the application. 
4. transport - Assuring that the package was delivered. assures delivery to specific recipient/
3. network - Get the "package" to the final destination, and take choices what is the next destination en route to final destination.
2. data link - sole purpose is to transmit a "package" from one point to other point. This layer does not determine where the next point is.
1. physical - the transmission medium, transmitter and receiver. zeros and ones.

Today layers 7, 6 and 5 are considered one layer - the application layer. so today its likely a 5 layer diagram.
layers 2,3 and 4 and implemented by the OS.
Layer 2 on one side needs to be able to talk with layer 2 on other side, but also layer 3 needs to be able to talk to layer 2.
* ping is a component of the ICMP protocol to check comms between two.

****
1. The role of the physical layer is to encode the binary digits that represent data link layer frames into signals and to transmit and receive these signals across the physical media that connect network devices.
Copper cable
Fiber
Wireless
definition of hardware specs
encoding and signaling
data transmission and reception
topology and physical network design
PDU
****
2. data link layer
prepare entwork layer packets for transmission and to control access to the physical media.
allows upper layers to access the media using techniques such as framing.
Frame - the data link layer PDU
Node is layer 2 notation for network devices connected to a common medium
2.1 Logical Link Control(LLC) - establishment and control of logical linke between local devices on a network.
2.2 Media access control - the procedures used by devices to control acess to the network medium. one of the responsibilities is to identify a collision (e.g. two want to transmit at the same time), and then go back and try to transmit again.
Layer two adds a "header" and a "trailer". The trailer has CRC (check sum).
there is addressing here added in header
****
3. network layer
Routing! what is the next destination en route to the final destination
addressing(IPV4, IPV6)
Encapsulation(inserts a headr wih source and destination IPs)
Routing (move a packet over the internet)
Decapsulation ( open the packet and check the destination host)
IP is connectionless
there is addressing here added in header
****
4. Transport layer 
2 main protocols - TCP and UDP
there is addressing here added in header
****
5. Session layer
Functions at this layer create and maintain dialogs between source and destination applications.
authentication
permissions
session restoration
****
6. Presentation layer
Coding and conversion of app layer data to ensure that data from the source device can be interpreted by the appropriate application on the destination device.
****
7. application layer
-----------------------------------
-----------------------------------
-----------------------------------
Layer 2
Layer 2 passes a package from one node to another node. Layer 3 gives this command.
Framing-
	encapsulate datagram into frame, adding header, trailer. in the context of this layer, package is called a frame.
Link Access-
	Addressing:
	On every communication component has a unique MAC address. Used in frame headers. Introduces "MAC" addresses used in frame headers to identify 		hosts who are part of the networks.
	Channel access:
	Defines the set of rules which allows the hosts to use the (possibly shared) medium.
Flow control:
	pacing between adjacent sending and receiving nodes
Error detection:
	errors caused by signal attenuation, noise
	receiver detects presence of erros: signals send for retrana
32 bit IP address
MAC address: used to get datagram from one interface to another physically connected interface
48 bit MAC address (for most LANs) burned in the adapter ROM but can be modified
broadcast MAC address = FF-FF-FF-FF-FF-FF
MAC address is like social security number/ ID number
IP address is like a postal address

if layer 2 doesnt know the MAC address:
ARP: Address Resolution Protocol
*Each IP node (host router) on LAN has ARP table
*ARP table: IP/MAC address mappings for some LAN nodes
ARP request: broadcast to all on the network send MAC addresses.
ARP table <IP address; MAC address; TTL>
TTL (Time To Live): time after which address mapping will be forgotten (typically 20 min)
-----------------------------------
-----------------------------------
-----------------------------------
strace - all system calls to the OS
valgrind
--------
Install WireShark:
do ifconfig command and learn your IP & MAC address
Download and install WireShark
Learn the basic commands and use WireShark
	- capture
	- filter
learn your friend MAC by PING
Follow the ARP packets in WireShark
Look the update ARP table (ARP -n)

--------------------------------------------------
Ethernet Frame Structure:
sending adapter encapsulates IP datagram in Ethernet frame
Preamble Dest.Address Source.Address Type/length Data CRC

Preamble: 7 bytes with pattern 10101010 followed by one byte with pattern 10101011. Used to synchronize receiver, sender clcok rates: what is the length, in clock tick, of one bit. 
addresses: 6 bytes

Ethernet frame has minimal size and maximal size. minimal size is 46 bytes in data. maximum size is 1500. 14 bytes in header.
if the type is a value between 0000-05DC it is length, if its above it is type

Hub is part of layer 1. hubs also have signal repeters.
Hub allows to go from circular network pattern to star network pattern, helps to solve cable length, disconnect and infrastructure problems. still we didnt solve the collision and capacity problems.

Learning table:
MAC|PORT|TTL
------------
the "upgraded" hub is called a bridge.
A multi-bridge is called a switch (switch layer 2) - has the learning table

bridge procedure(in_MAC, in_PORT, out_MAC)
{
	lookup in filtering table (out_MAC) receive out_port
	if (out_port not valid)
	{
		then flood;
	}
	
	if (in_port = out_port)
	{
		drop the frame;
	}
	
	Otherwise (out_port is valid)
	{
		then forward the frame on interface indicated;
	}
}































